Hey,
guys,
In this video,
we will continue our path towards creating a full crowd application in PHP.
And today we will be looking at how we can go about seeing records that have been submitted
to the database.
By way off recap,
we would have created a database called attendance DB On inside off attenders db we have a
table called attendee,
which is where our records for each attendee will be stored,
meaning each person who registers on this page should get stored in this database once they
click.
Submit now to accomplish this,
what I'm going to do is add enough bar to the top off this page,
which will allow me to navigate to another page to view all the records,
someone to go to bootstrap dot com and see what they have in store for me for nuff bars.
So I go to get bootstrap dot com on die go to components in their documentation on knave
bar.
And here I see some sample code for enough bar.
And if I scroll by,
I can see the different options available to me.
Someone to go with this snuff buyer ally.
The way it looks.
It simply enough on the court.
Looks simple enough to understand.
Understand,
to copy it on because this is enough.
By that I want to show up on every single page in this application.
I'm going to add it to the header file in my project.
So remember that header should be above everything and whatever goes in the head of means
that that it's at the top off the beaches,
at the top,
off any each in a document I gets rendered.
So if I add enough by here,
the expectation is that every page that includes Hitter will have the nut bar being
displayed.
So I just fixed mine up my indentation and then we're just going to go back to the
documentation underside on dissected of it.
So you see here that they're opening a tug called Nav,
and we have a few classes,
a few classes that kind of give it some character RBG dash lights so that music can change
what color scheme we want.
We can look at that later on.
Then we see that they have enough bar dash brand,
which is a word and have bar so we can change that someone to go back and change that in my
court from Nav bar Toe I t conference.
All right.
On DSO Usually this is the name of your sites,
right?
So similarly,
they would have used the same court in their sights on But instead of using a word,
they use their local.
So whatever website you're building,
you can put the logo in this section or just the word off the name off the website.
Now,
this section with the button,
what it does is create those nav bar pills.
So if I reduced this in size,
toe the size off,
maybe a mobile device and you see this happening here on,
that's what we usually see on a mobile phone.
So by using bootstrap,
we have already got gotten what you call a responsive website on DSO that called that bit
of court.
Therefore,
the button it actually is responsible for making the enough bar pills.
That's what they're called on.
Then moving on this Dave,
which is collapsible C c.
That he says collapse.
So if you take all these classes,
I'm sure I can guarantee you that if you modify these class differences as they're here in
the example,
they're not by will not behave the way bootstrap would have intended it.
Toe.
So advise you if you're going to make changes to these classes.
Be very careful and you should be very,
very deliberate.
So this section hoses all off the links on you see that?
They're just regular Uncle Tax.
So there's nothing release fancy about them.
So we need to do is change the name that is being displayed.
The name off the link Onda also the trip.
So we're going to do that quickly with over website.
So right now we will have Well,
we have one page but by the end of this video,
we should have at least two someone to leave to here on day.
I leave this as home because form is aching to index So I leave that they're on the air.
Traf will be index dot PHP So any time somebody clicks the home link in the nav bar,
it should goto index dot PHP on.
In addition to that,
I'm going to use the same link inside off this uncle talk for the for the logo or the
branding section.
I had enough by brand.
So you know it is that this is also an ankle tag.
So if we go back to Bootstrap,
their logo is actually clickable.
If I click,
this little weight goes back to their homepage.
So that is the kind of behavior I want.
Similarly,
there's ah,
home one.
So my enough bar will have a conference which,
if clicked,
will reload index on also ah,
link that says home,
which,
when clicked,
will reload the index page on then my next page.
I'm going to make it save you attendees.
So the expectation is that when I click this snuff by link,
I'm going to see all off the persons who will be attending my conference on the Since I'm
here,
I'll just see that the HF should be view records dot PHP.
So that means I need to create a page for this uncle talked to Navigator.
So I'm going to go back to my explorer Pain.
Andi,
I have Index,
I have success.
PHP I'm just going to add a new file and I want to call this one view records dot PHP I
know we have ah,
new blank file and then off course,
the first thing that we want to do,
and I'm just going to go back to index on kind off,
bar the cord from here.
I wanted to look uniforms understand to include the header on the connection on I'm also
going to include My Footer as well as some BR tags to put some distance between the content
on the footer.
All right,
so once we have done those changes,
we can go ahead and refresh your page on.
We see that now we have enough bar on because it's using the light team.
I don't know if it's very visible for you,
so we can change that.
Or the fact is,
we have the Nuff buyer showing.
And then if we click this,
it really is the home page of foot to calm.
It's the same thing.
If I click view attendees,
then we navigate away on you.
See that enough buyer is still in place.
So looking at these examples,
I can see that I have not Barn of Bar Dash Dark and BG.
That's primary someone to go back to my enough barcoding hitter on.
I'm going to make a few modifications on which is enough bar dash darks on B g dash primary
on.
That's because I want my enough bar to be blue.
So when I refreshed my page,
I get my nav bar being blue on my links clearly visible,
so know that we have created our new page.
We need to change the title so that the carts title will appear in our title bar in our
browser.
But the next big step is to modify our or crowd files so that we can start interacting with
the data that we we intend to for the speech.
No,
for this speech,
we are going to be working on the air out of crowed.
Remember,
crowd is create,
read,
update,
delete when you're viewing fuzzier,
reading or retrieving the files so I can go to the crowd on I'm going toe the crowd final
story and then we're going to They find a brand new function.
So we already have a function that is dealing with inserting data.
I'm going to create another function,
someone to follow the same pattern public function on.
Then we will say,
get attendees.
So your function,
your function name should always be kind off indicative off what is happening.
So I'm actually going toe qualify.
This one is really insert attendees so that nobody would ever wonder what I'm inserting
when they see this functions.
If I change the function name here that I need to make sure that all references to this
function Archie is also start as quickly hop over to my success page,
which is where I made reference to it and change it from inserts the US insert attendees
are so backed or crowd page,
we are defining a phone son that says,
Get attendees on.
Then,
inside this function,
I am going to execute a quarry that is responsible for bringing back the attendees.
Now,
if you want some help knowing how that would look,
if you go back to PHP my admin and click on their 10 de table,
then you actually see that when they go to Breaux's,
they actually give you what the select statement looks like to get back everything inside
off your database.
Onda.
We can actually click on this create peach V chord over to the right hand side here,
and they actually give you that inside of a very was understand the company,
so this isn't really necessary.
It's just a guy,
but it doesn't help.
It doesn't hurt to have some help.
The next thing we want to do is create a variable,
and I'm going to call it result on the value off result is going to be this.
Remember,
this is our object for our con or crude that PHP file on the arrow operator toe,
Get the private.
The private variable that was declared here that is going to embody our connection to the
database.
So we're getting this d b r o operator on.
Then we're going to execute the quarry.
So it does say this DB query on dime went to pass in the actual clarify our query,
that joke worry which is in this variable called sq.
Well,
this this function is going to just return whatever comes back in results.
Okay,
Looking good.
So far,
the next step is to start wiring up our view record speech to actually show these records.
Now,
the most common way to show records is in a table.
Thb and tables.
They have a love affair.
So the first thing I want to do is actually create a table that would kind of have all the
columns that we need to see foreign attendee on.
We are going to write some court that is going to dynamically generate these rose for the
attendees.
So in other words,
we're going to have a table.
Some of it is going to be static,
the design part.
But then we want to dynamic a legendary terrible for each for each attendee,
because we don't want the money while they sit down and write the semaphore.
Each attendee,
that's almost impossible.
If you have over 1000 attendees,
I want to quickly do a table tag.
All right,
so this is some BC gauge steam out here table and then inside or table.
We always have a TR tug,
and I'm going to open and close it in two separate lines.
Andi,
before you can have any column,
you have to have a rule.
So that's just the pattern that that HTML tables come in.
So in the first TR tug what we're goingto have our table hitters because those will be like
the titles for each column.
So in inside this tr time,
want tohave td Andi,
I'm going to basically just replicate all off the columns from the database.
So if I take a look at the table that is generated,
this is actually just a table are on then These are the column headings per per well per
column that is in the table.
So off course,
we don't want to print back first name with no space as it is in the database.
So we can actually putting our design hats on,
put in readable or more user friendly column headings inside off for HTML pages.
So I'm just going to go ahead and do that for each column that's in the database.
All right,
So I just after finishing all of them are allies I'm using t d.
I should be using T.
H.
So if you're using TD apologizes,
should be using t it.
So just change out all off the TDs into th All right?
So th means stable header where STD means table data.
So for the headers,
when you say th you automatically gets like a it stands out.
All right.
So teach has a different function from TD on.
Then I'm going to do off a sample roar.
Just a show what our data needs to look like.
All right.
So I did sample rules that has created another rule,
and I just put in some sample values just to show you what our table or put is going to
look like.
So when I go back to my website and have you attendees,
this is what is going to look like.
You're just going to see this table looking that this But this isn't very This doesn't look
like a table at all.
It is not very attractive on that is,
in part because I'm not using any bootstrap classes.
So I'm just going toe head on over to Bootstrap,
See what?
They have four tables,
and you can find that by clicking content on tables on.
Then you see that in their court example,
they have a class four tables called tables,
Understand?
To make her friends of this glass here.
Andi,
I'm just going to add it to my existing table,
in my view,
record speech.
And they don't want to refresh and watch the magic.
All right,
so now you see that it's no kind of justified from left to right on.
We get a little line.
So if you want it with more flair you can always idea on CSS students and they actually
have other options.
You can get a dark table if you want.
You can get one where the table head is kind of defined.
You can get stripes seeking it.
Ah,
whole bunch of things so you can personalize it.
You add on the other classes that you want,
Andi make it yours.
But for no well,
we just satisfy with referencing table.
All right,
so I just realized that was one column shorts.
I just fixed it on there.
That's better.
So at the end of the day,
this is what our table needs to look like.
But each role here would be the attendees data.
So back in our view,
record speech,
We're going to go ahead and declare a variable on.
I'm going to call it are.
Well,
that's That's right.
It Our results on the value off results is going to be whatever is returned from over get
attendees function.
So recall that we can always reference these functions by using or crowd object,
which is defined in our con file.
So crowd once Khan is included on a page,
we have access to this object And once you have access to this object,
we have access to every single function that is defined in that class.
So I'm going to say,
crowd arrow,
get attendees.
So back to my V records results is going to be equal to crude.
And then my arrow operator on,
then get attendees.
So remember that this former sun is returning the values on the results from that SQL
statement.
With that done,
we're going to start exploring hole pH.
B helps us the dynamically generate HTML.
So I'm going to remove my some parole on I'm going to replace this block.
Firstly,
with a PHP tag on in this speech Beetle,
I'm going to write a while loop,
so we're going to see a while and then,
ah,
while you take some condition,
I'm going to say our,
which is an arbitrary value,
is equal toe result.
So result is what were the results is what we defined up here.
So results and,
um,
when she's my roo operator on a keyword,
Fetch on,
then inside off this,
I'm going to say PD or colon colon,
fetch A s s l c.
I guess that's association short for association So let me explain what's happening here.
So this speech B block can be inserted into anybody off html off course he can't inserted
without wrapping it in PHP.
So I just inserted this speech we block inside off my table.
Onda,
I'm creating a while loop where I am going to see Give me do this operation for each Itim
inside off this collection.
So when results comes back from this in line it when results comes back after getting all
that in these,
it's going to be like an area is going to have a bunch off results,
something for each thing that came back inside off this results variable,
let's are embody that value.
So then we're going to say for each value we want to generate our rule.
So this wire loop well,
of course,
no.
While it is complete without its quotation.
Sorry,
it's braces.
So I'm going to use just the open breeze here,
and then you're going to see that this speech B block is no screaming because it's saying
that the previous the previous Peachtree Block has incurred court.
But we'll fix that later on.
So what I'm going to do just the same time is actually a clear another Ph.
B block on this PHP block is going to have the sole purpose off closing this wire loop.
So I'm opening it in one,
and I'm closing it in another.
And you can observe that the syntax no,
is that he's because it's a okay.
All right,
I see what you did there.
He opened it in one PHP block and closes in on the in another PHP block.
No,
this is really cool,
because remember that anything that's not previously or inside of a PHP block is going to
be HTML.
So I'm seeing that while this loop is running,
I want to be doing something.
And what I want to be doing is generating a t r.
And I'm just went,
Oh,
open and close this TR on every t r has TDs.
So for each time or each record that I'm going to be getting back when I up do this
operation,
I want to generate a new rule in my table on each rule should have a TV,
someone to create.
I'm just going to duplicate the number of TV's I Need,
which is 1234567 So I'm just going to duplicate this on then.
Each TD is supposed to have a value coming back from the database.
So inside off the TD,
I'm goingto have toe echo this value of coming back from the database.
Remember,
the only way to get the value from the database is to use this are this are variable that
we just defined.
So once again,
each time that the loop ITER it's is going to store our results from the set of results
inside off our on then through are we can actually reference whatever value.
But the only way to get that value in here is to put in a PHP block Onda We have toe EC or
the value from the variable.
So we're going toe echo on,
we say dollars saying are on.
Then remember that this is going to be like an ar e.
So this is an area off Ari's,
because one we're fitting all the results.
So think off all the results coming back from the database as an area or from the table as
honoree on.
Then each column formulates on entry into the area.
So the same way we could have accessed data using over a little just about to success
speech.
Be the same way the post variable loaders toe access each ari subscript using the name or
are value here actually allows is the access each columns value using the name of the
column as the sub scripts Understand to say our square bracket on in single quotation.
Specify the column.
So my column was actually attendance I d or a 10 B.
I actually attendee on the score idea can just double check with PHP My admin on?
Yes,
it was.
Attendee,
underscore I d.
So each off these columns can be accessed through this arbitrary this abstract value that
we created on it can be accord wherever we want.
So what we want to do is that for every record that is there,
we want to echo whatever body was stored.
So I know we only have one record,
but by the end of this video,
we should be able to add at least two more records,
see them in the database and see them on this speech.
So I'm just going to repeat this treatment.
I can just copy this cord on I'm going to go into pace it,
and I'm going to write back the corresponding value per column hitter that I would have
defined.
So the next column hitter should be getting the first name value,
so I'll just see first name,
Since that's the name off the column in the database on,
I'm going to repeat that for each off the other columns that need data.
So just to recap once again,
what we've done is create a while loop and inside the while we're seeing that for each time
it's iterations.
We want to bring back the record in the form off available called Are On.
Then we're going to print oh to the different sub.
Scripts from this are variable inside the different table Dita spaces per rule.
So when I mean these changes and save and refresh,
this is what my patients like on.
I'm seeing Mary's record on.
Well,
we're going to fix the date off birth value situation here on then we're seeing each thing
,
and we also need to address the fact that only three is going back for specialty.
So let's put our form to the test,
understand?
To click on my navigation bar Homelink to go back home on.
Then I'm going to put in Agnes Walters.
Andi,
see what happens when we so me turn information to the data bees.
So when I do all of this fellow the former and click submits,
I see that,
OK,
you have been registered.
So we know that our database connection is working on.
We're reprinting her values,
going back from the post values.
But then when I go to view attendees,
I actually see her information newly added to the table because she is no in our database.
So just the very fact.
And go back to my database and click bro's again on.
Then it will populate it with her new record.
So,
no,
we're inserting records and were able to view them in our website.
Now there are two things that we need to fix one.
It's the date off birth.
We notice that it's going over a 00000 even though we clearly selected at it on the second
thing is specialty.
So I start with specialty because then it kind of ties into what we're doing.
No.
So the situation with specialties is that we have a table specifically designed for
specialty.
So if I go back to pee stream admin,
click on specialties,
I'm going to see that I have at least one special details.
The i D three on database Adminis admit as a value,
no years may not be three years,
maybe one years maybe,
too.
It depends.
All right,
on you may have added more or you may have fewer.
So I'm adjustment to insert as many specialties here in the database as I actually have in
my drop down list.
So remember to insert all we really need to do is put in the name on dso.
Just remind myself the specialties that we advertised were software developer,
Web administrator and others.
I'm just went,
Oh,
go ahead.
And at these on by conflict go.
All right.
And then it's showing me the actual insert statements.
I'm just going toe,
modify this insert statement and just enter other at the same time.
Oh,
it's saying that authority did it.
So I'm just going to remove this on.
I'm just going to use this same statement to do other.
All right?
So that's why reading is important because it did it already,
and I almost did it again.
So I'm just going to go ahead and click goal on one more Royce insurgents.
When I look in the specialty stable,
I know have all four of my specialties on you don't just at the ideas here are because,
well,
I'm jumping from 3 to 5 for whatever reason it's keeping for.
But the point is,
in your system,
you might have different numbers than I do so in my video,
where I would have hard coded the option value off.
Three.
That is not the best way to do this,
because we want to dynamic a legendary it on option,
her specialty.
So if you had five specialties,
then you should be generating five options.
I only have four.
If you had 10 then your your experience or your users experience shouldn't be tied to my
own.
So I'm going to write some cord that is going to actually query my specialty stable on
generate the options,
her record in the table as well as actually modifying,
sitting the value according to whatever i d.
It's had in the database.
So,
as usual,
the first place I'm going to go because I have a database operation to carry out is crude
on I'm going toe Create a new function,
public function.
And I'm calling this one Get specialties on,
then get specialties is actually going to look very similar to get attendees.
Because all I want is all the specialties and all the columns.
Understand?
To copy this score on,
I'm going to re freeze the SQL statement from attendee toe specialties so know that we have
defined a function,
get specialties.
We can go back to our index speech on actually repeat similar steps where we have some
variable called results on.
We're going to call our function inside off our crude operator.
Get specialties.
No,
We're going to modify over select control where we're going to actually take all the hard
coded options on.
We're going to repeat what we did with our while.
Oops.
I'm going to declare a Ph B block on inside this Ph B block.
I'm going to say a while some arbitrary value and I'm calling it are once again on that.
I'm going to see results are oh,
fetch.
And that's PD or colon Colon.
Fetch association on.
Then I went toe open my calibrates on,
then I'm going to just close it at the same time so that I don't forget.
So that's very important.
Guys never forget to close your current embraces.
Sometimes you,
me get carried away with the court,
and he really didn't remember to close it.
And because of former scored,
happens in between you,
you don't realise,
and it spent always be Buoying over this,
so it's good to this open and close the same time.
So what we want here is to actually generate an option tug for each rule coming back from
our specialty stable someone to declare my option.
Onda close it,
so I really only need to do one option because it's a template and it's just going to
repeat it for each recorder on.
Then what I want in between option for the printed value is the PHP tag.
Where I'm going to echo are on.
What I want to echo from our is the value in the column name,
so that's what this option tag will look like.
But there's one more thing.
We also needed the value,
so we need the value,
which should be the same value as what would be in our database table.
So the i d in the databases,
what the value should be.
So I'm going to say value equals once again,
I'm going to Well,
I'm actually just want to be clear.
Put quotation marks,
but I have to use my Ph b tug on.
I'm going to have to echo are on whatever value is in i d.
So let's look at this again.
I'm generating an option tug for each off the results coming back on each option.
Time is going toe have as its value the i d.
Coming back from the database,
Andi printed to the screen for the user's eyes.
The name.
So when I go and refresh my browser,
I get an error here.
They're saying that there's something some undefined method,
and I think I was spelling errors.
So when I go back,
yes,
I have a spelling error.
I said specialities.
What?
It is special.
She's all right.
So when I go back and I refresh once again,
all right,
So after fixing that era,
we see here where we still have our dropped on,
we still have all of our options on Just validate that these air?
No coming from the database.
If I view paid source,
then look at the options being the fact.
Then all we actually see a debug issue,
anything undefined index.
So I think I may have referenced i d.
When it's specialty ideas so apologised.
So I just go back and me that correction.
So it's always good to have you paid sources,
See if there is anything kicking and screaming in the background.
So it's specialty on the score,
i d.
And there we have value equals 34567 So whatever the value is water,
the idea is in the database.
That is what is getting printed back as the value on whatever the name is what we're seeing
in the drop down box.
So let's just validate that everything is going according to plan.
So I'm just going to add another another attendee.
All right,
so we're going to add Tom Hopkins.
I know Tom is fully registered on.
We see here that the I d value is being passed over Andi,
when we view records.
Sorry,
View attendees.
Then we still see this.
I devalue Soto.
Fix this.
I devalue.
We need to modify the select script so that we're getting about the name on,
not just the i d.
So I'm going to go back to my crowd,
file on going to modify this quarry that says,
get attendees on.
I'm going to do what we call an inner join someone to say inner join on.
I'm inner joining the special teas table on specialty on the score,
I d equals specialty on the score I d.
And then because where we have the same column name,
what we have to do is actually give the tables are in essence,
I can call attendees E onda specialties s on that.
I'm going to see it.
That specialty is equal toe s that specialty on the score.
I d.
All right,
So if you tend us,
follow this along.
If you need a better understanding off this,
you can always tickled my course on my school database development and muster on that will
bring a lot of context as to what is happening here.
But once we have relationships in a database,
then we have to be what we call inner joins where we're actually joining the data between
the two tables on what they have in common.
And if you remember,
when we were setting up or database,
we had specialty underscore ideas,
the primary key and a specialty stable on We have specialty underscore idea as a foreign
key,
which is,
all we're seeing is the values that correspond with the ideas from the special do stable.
So by doing this inner joy and I'm no seeing,
bring back all the details from both these tables and a loamy toe do with it as I wish So
for the display aspect,
since I'm no getting back.
All of the columns from the attendee table on all of the calls from the specialty stable,
including the name know what I can do is actually go back to my cord about to my success
isn't success.
No,
my view.
Record speed.
Sorry,
Andi.
Instead,
offer a fencing specialty.
I d.
I can no reference name because the name is a column that I know have access toe.
And then when I refresh this page,
I am no seeing all of the specialties that are associated with I D three.
So I'm going to go and add one more record just to drive the point home on this one is
going to be some bit off gibberish on going to change the area of expertise,
the website administrator,
and then submits on here once again,
we're printing by just the value because we're looking at the post value,
which is just the option value.
But then when we view attendees,
we'll see the actual name because we know that we're printing the name associated with that
.
I devalue six.
Now,
the last thing that we want to change is the fact that the date of birth is giving those
ears.
And I was mentioning that this is because off a date for marching issue.
So in PHP,
the date format needs to be y y y y four wise to stems.
And to these,
in other words,
year,
month,
day.
But then we didn't know that the date picker,
if we go about our farm is really giving us in the month of the year are day monthly or
something else are.
So what we need to do is tell the date quicker toe,
actually change the former Toby Ph.
Be friendly.
So I'm going to go back to my footer fire on my way to find the function that involves
their picker on going to add to the attributes here.
So this press comma and right date formats colon on.
Then I'm going to specify that the date for what I want is why,
why,
why?
That's four wise to ends on two D's.
So once of me that change,
I can go back and refresh my form.
And if I take a look if I selected it and I look at what is printed,
I see Oh,
all right,
so it's actually Y y Sorry.
So in jobless groups,
the date four month thing is a bit different.
So it's why why,
mm bt?
So let me refresh on do that again on right.
There we go.
So it's why why to give us the four numerals.
So it's kind of where causing peach beats.
Why,
why?
Why If you use excel,
it's why,
Why,
why,
why?
But in that was scripted.
So y y so you just want to be called me sent off that So I'm just went toe enter another
random record here just to see what this will turn out to be in when I submit everything
went through.
Well,
we see here the date four months is retained.
How when I go to view attendees,
we see here that we are actually seeing the date format because it's no saving it in a Ph
be friendly way.
So that's it for how we go about selecting records and hold we dynamically generate issue
mill based on watches in the database.